## Environment setup

To complete the exercises, you will need an environment with GitHub Copilot, and a supported IDE such as VS Code. You can use your local computer and install these tools.

**OPTION A - I want to setup my local machine for the exercises**

<details>

<summary>1. Ensuring you have access to GitHub Copilot</summary>

### Accessing GitHub Copilot

If you **DO NOT** have one of the following:

-   an active Copilot for Individuals trial
-   an active Copilot for Individuals subscription
-   an active Copilot for Business licence

you can sign up for a trial [here](https://github.com/github-copilot/signup).

</details>

<details>

<summary>2. Installing a supported IDE on your local machine</summary>

### Installing a supported IDE on your machine

If you **DO NOT** have one of the following:

-   VSCode
-   Visual Studio
-   NeoVIM
-   JetBrains IDE

on your local machine, you will need to install one of these IDEs to use GitHub Copilot and complete the exercises.

If you have no preference, we suggest you install VSCode. You can download it [here](https://code.visualstudio.com/download).

</details>

<details>

<summary>3. Installing the GitHub Copilot extension</summary>

### Installing the GitHub Copilot extension

GitHub Copilot is a client-side extension you install into your supported developer IDE. The extension is available for VSCode, Visual Studio, NeoVIM and JetBrains IDEs.

Click the appropriate IDE link below for instructions to install the extension. As part of this you will need to log in using your GitHub account to ensure you are a licensed user of GitHub Copilot.

-   [VSCode](https://docs.github.com/en/copilot/getting-started-with-github-copilot?tool=vscode#installing-the-visual-studio-code-extension)
-   [Visual Studio](https://docs.github.com/en/copilot/getting-started-with-github-copilot?tool=visualstudio#installing-the-visual-studio-extension)
-   [NeoVIM](https://docs.github.com/en/copilot/getting-started-with-github-copilot?tool=neovim#installing-the-neovim-extension-on-macos)
-   [JetBrains IDE](https://docs.github.com/en/copilot/getting-started-with-github-copilot?tool=jetbrains#installing-the-github-copilot-extension-in-your-jetbrains-ide)

You should now have the GitHub Copilot extension installed in your IDE of choice.

</details>

#### What's next?

You're now ready to start the [core exercises](<./2. core exercises.md>)
